[MUSIC]
So far, we have designed a simple
algorithm for the multiway cut problem.
Now, let us try a more sophisticated, and
better algorithm based on an interesting
linear programming relaxation.
As usual,
we start by designing an integer program.
How do we design an integer programming
model for the multi-way cut problem?
We have to define some variables.
If we think about multi-way cut,
it's a partition of the graph into
Classes for the vertices, each vertex is
associated to one particular terminal.
These vertices go with terminal a1,
those vertices go with terminal a2,
and those vertices go with terminal a3.
So, this suggests having one variable for
each vertex.
And each terminal.
For each graph vertex, u, and terminal,
i, we will define a variable Xsub u,i,
whose interpretation is this X = 1 if
vertex u is the cluster of terminal i.
Okay, so with the Xui's then,
we get to have a partition of
the vertices into clusters.
Now, we want to capture the value
of the resulting multi-way cut.
That is, we want to compute the sum of the
weights of the edges that cross the cuts.
All the edges that are drawn here.
So, we will have a variable for each edge
e telling us whether it crosses the cut.
And how do we do it?
We will do it in a slightly manner.
That is, for every edge e, for
every terminal i,
we will have a variable z sub ei.
That will be set to one.
If, and
only if this edge goes out of cluster i.
In other words, here,
this edge e has Ze a1
equals 1,
because it goes out of cluster 1.
Ze 2 equals 1.
Because as E goes out of cluster two it
goes between cluster one and cluster two.
But Ze3 will be 0 because this
edge does not leave cluster three.
Why do we do this?
Because we will be able to capture
this with some constraints.
So, let's move on to the constraints.
The constraints of our integer program.
First, every Ze,i and
every Xu,i must be 0,1.
Second, if you look at terminal ai,
terminal ai is in its own cluster
in cluster ai, obviously.
What does this mean?
It means that Xai,i must be equal to 1.
So, every vertex is in exactly 1 cluster.
Every vertex u belongs to some cluster,
exactly 1.
So, the some of x u i over every terminal,
must be equal to 1.
One of these is 1, all the others are 0.
With these constraints, we have captured
the [INAUDIBLE] x must define with
partition of the [INAUDIBLE] into parts
such that i contains terminal ai.
Finally, how do we capture the fact
that an edge goes across the coaster?
Well, when does the edge e equals u v,
when does it cross between cluster i and
cluster j?
We can see that because vertex u is
in cluster i, vertex v in cluster j.
We can see that because Xui is 1,
xuj is 0, xvi is 0, xvj is 1.
In other words,
if Xui is different from Xvi,
one of these two is 0, the other one is 1.
One of these two vortexes,
u and v, is in cluster i.
The other one is not in cluster i.
Therefore, this is exactly the situation
when edge uv crosses out of cluster i.
Okay, so this is not a condition
that is easy to express linearly.
We will see that in a minute.
So, we're still left with this constraint
that we don't quite know how to express,
but before we express it,
let's write the objective.
That is the easy part.
At e, if we look at the sum over every
i of Zei, what will this be equal to?
It depends.
If the edge is internal to a cluster,
then all those seen as o will return to 0.
Good.
If the edge is between two clusters,
like this one here, then,
with Zei will be 1 once fine, and
one another time for
J .so will pass 2 of them.
So, if you multiply by 1 /2
the contribution will be o1/2 C of B.
So, the objective is exactly one half
spends the sum over every edge E.
Sum over every term I.
Of Z sub e, Z sub ei.
So,we have our variables
we have our objectives
we have started our constraints
we left with this slightly
mysterious constraint that we're
not quite done dealing with yet.
Lets finish this.
How do we express this?
This can be written with absolute values.
Zuv,i must be at least
the absolute value of the difference
between Xu,i and Xv,i.
Consider this, what does it mean?
If U and V are in the same constraint.
Xu,i = Xv,i.
Their difference is 0 and this constraint
says Ze,i is greater than recall to 0.
It doesn't add any
constraint to the problem.
Good.
If u and v are in different clusters
than one of these 2 variables is 0 and
1 of them is 1,the absolute value
of the difference is exactly 1,
so this says Ze,i must be at least 1.
So, with this absolute value we had
exactly expressed this condition
that Zuv,i is 1, if and only if Xu,i
is different than Xv,i, and finally,
how do we transform this absolute
value into linear inequalities?
We can just write, Ze,i must be
greater than both Xu,i minus Xv,i.
And, the opposite Xv,i- Xu,i, indeed.
If Ze,i is greater than both, then,
it's greater than the max
of these two quantities.
And the max of these two quantities
is exactly the absolute value.
So, this condition,
Z greater than an absolute value,
is equivalent to two linear conditions.
Beware.
You cannot always get rid of
absolute values in this way.
You're lucky here that the inequality
is greater than the absolute value.
If it said less than an absolute value,
then we would not be able
to employ this trick.
Because when you do the max,
it doesn't work anymore.
The inequalities would go
in the wrong direction.
So, here we're just lucky.
Okay, so now we have an integer
program for the problem.
Here it is, to summarize, to recap.
Variables, xu,i,
ze,i that have values 0 or 1.
For terminal ai, xai,i is equal to 1.
For other terminals,
the sum of every i must be equal to 1.
ze,i is greater than both xu,i minus
xv,i and xv,i minus xu,i if e is auv.
And the objective is to
minimize one-half of the sum
over every e and
i of the cost of that e times ze,i.
This is an integer programming
formulation of the multi-wicket problem.
Now what do we do?
We do a linear programming relaxation.
How do we do that?
We know how to do this.
There.
I took this line xu,e ze,i equal to 0,1.
Replaced it by xu,e ze,i real
numbers between 0 and 1.
The rest is identical.
Unchanged.
It's all the same and so
that's our linear programming relaxation.
And what is interesting about this,
this is just a slightly more
complicated variant of what we
have seen in previous chapters.
So, what's interesting about
this is we do not stop here.
We study it, and we see it
as a geometric object.
Let's do it.
For every vertex u,
we can define the vector.
Vector xu of all the variables
xu,i sitting in k dimensions.
k is the number of terminals.
xu,i, if you remember is 1.
iff vertex u belongs to
the cluster of terminal ai.
So we have one dimension for
each terminal.
And what is the sum of the xu,is?
We know it has to be 1.
But it's also the sum
of the absolute values,
because all the xu,is are non-negative.
And what is this?
If you have a vector,
xu with these coordinates and
you sum the absolute value of
the coordinates, what do you get?
You get the, l1,
the length of a vector in the l1 metric.
So we have vectors in k dimensions, and
we have a constraint that says that
their l1 length must be equal to 1.
Let's keep going.
All right.
One dimension for each terminal.
Let's think about the case
when k is equal to 3.
3 dimensions.
What can we say about terminal a1 say?
Terminal a1,
we know that it's first coordinate x,a1,1
equals 1 xa1,2 is 0, xa1,3 is 0.
Here it is.
Terminal 1 corresponds to this vector,
1,0,0.
Terminal 2 corresponds to that vector,
0,1,0.
Terminal three corresponds to this vector,
0,0,1.
What about all the other vectors?
The other vectors must satisfy,
the sum of their coordinates must be
equal to 1, and then non-negative.
What object is defined and
argued by these equations?
Exactly this.
A triangle, this is a triangle.
It's a two-dimensional object in r cubed.
A triangle of the equation
x2 + x1 + x3 = 1.
And all the xis are greater than or
equal to 0.
A triangle bounded by the three vertices
corresponding to the three terminals.
So if we think about the constraint
that the sum of the xu,is
must be equal to 1.
That says vertex u must
be in this triangle.
Especially if we add xu,i is
always greater than or equal to 0.
Then this can be translated
geometrically into the vector
associated to vertex u must be
somewhere in this triangle.
And the three terminals are the three
corners of this triangle.
Now, what are we trying to minimize?
We tried to minimize ze,i,
where if edge e is at uv,
ce,i is at least what?
The sum of xu1 minus xv1,
xu2 minus xv2, xu3- xv3.
This is no other than just the l1
distance between xu and xv.
So we can write the objective
as one-half of the sum
over every edge uv of cuv times
the l1 metric of the vector xu-xv.
So now, the problem is to embed
the graph vertices inside
the triangle, to minimize this quantity.
Let's think about this triangle some more.
What can we say about the coordinates
of the points on this triangle?
Let's first look at an edge
along this triangle.
This edge is bounded by the two
vertices 0,0,1 and 0,1,0.
It contains all the linear combinations,
convex combinations, of these two points.
In other words, all the vertices on
this edge have x1 is equal to 0.
That's true for this vertex, true for
that one, true everywhere in between.
And then if we look at the coordinates
x2 and x3, they sum to 1.
x2+x3 is 1, x2+x3 is 1.
So that's what this line is about.
What about the line parallel to this,
but inside the triangle?
What about this line?
It goes from 0.6, 0, 0.4,
the sum most equal to 1,
the second component must be equal to 0.
To 0.6, 0.4, 0.
The sum must be equal to 1,
the third coordinate must be
0 because it's on this edge.
What is this?
This consists of all vertices
that have x1 equal to 0.6,
and x2 plus x3 equal to 0.4.
So these are the coordinates on these
parallel edges of this triangle.
Let's continue studying this triangle.
Take a particular vertex
x in this triangle.
What can you say if you draw
this line here you get to
the point where x1 is the same.
The first coordinate has not changed, x1.
The third coordinate must be zero.
So the second coordinate
must be one minus x1.
So, the parallel projection
of x along this edge
of the triangle has coordinates x1,
one minus x1, zero.
Similarly if you do a parallel
projection of x but
on this edge of the triangle
you get zero x2, one minus x2.
And along the third edge one minus x3,
zero x3,
so these are the coordinates of
the projections of x on
the three sides of the triangle.
Let's continue looking at
this triangle further.
So these are just
elementary geometric facts.
Look at two vertices, x and y.
Look at their projections, x and y.
They both project on the bottom edge.
The projections are x1, one minus x1,
zero, and y1, one minus y1, zero.
What is the distance between
the two projections?
It's x1 minus y1 plus an absolute value,
plus one minus x1 minus one minus y1.
It's exactly two times x1 minus y1,
absolute value.
If you look at the other edges you get,
again,
two times the absolute
value of x2 minus y2.
And two times the absolute
value of x3 minus yx.
If you sum all these things,
the length of this projection,
plus the length of that one, plus
the length of this one, what do you get?
You get exactly two times the l1
distance between x and y.
x minus y.
So that is the geometric
interpretation of what
we're trying to minimize
in our objective function.
What do we try to minimize?
One half times the sum
over every edge uv of cuv
times the l1 distance between xu and xv.
And what is the l1 distance?
It is half of the sum of
the distance between the projections of xg
one xv on the three sides of the triangle.
So with this,
we're well equipped to start thinking
about this problem in geometric terms.
So in other words, the problem being
solved by the linear programming
relaxation in the case where k is
equal to three is the following.
The LP relaxation is positioning
the graph vertices inside
this triangle with the three
terminals at the three corners
of a triangle to minimize
the weighted lengths of all
the projections of the edges
on the sides of the triangle.
That is, what the LP relaxation is doing.
It's constrained to have the three
terminals at the three corners.
And given that, it tries to
position all the other vertices so
as to minimize the weighted
lengths of their projections.
So again, let me repeat, the geometric
interpretation for k equal to three
embed the graph vertices inside
the triangle to minimize the weighted
lengths of the projections of the graph
edges on the sides of the triangle.
Given that the three terminals
are at the three corners.
Now there's nothing special
about k equal to three.
We could also do everything
we have done so far.
This reasoning could be done also for
k equals to four.
We would have a tetrahedron
instead of a triangle.
K equals to five.
And so on just by going to
higher dimensional space.
But it's easier to visualize things for
k equal to three.
Now we can think about rounding.
So this will be the object
of our next section.